# BME3053C-RatGang, Tricep Surae MRI Image Analysis 
## Background and Purpose
This repository is designed for work in Dr Otzel's lab at the Veterans Hospital. The lab's research revolves around testing the effects of a compound on muscle mass in rats with incomplete spinal cord injuries. This involves scanning the rat and determining the volume of the muscle, in this case the tricep surae. The easiest way to do this is take the cross sectional area of multiple slices and multiply by thickness and sum. The current SOP for Tricep Surae segmentation is provided in the respository involves completing over 192 segmentations per file as each slice must be hand annotated. This program specifically is a segmentation tool with semi-automatic capabilties.The goal for this program is to reduced time taken for segmentation by interpolating the segmentations in between the beginning and end slice of the region of interest 
## Usage
To use this program, download the repository and save it to a folder. Open that folder within matlab and open the main.m script. Press run and enter a file name under the 'MRI_Images' folder. Click Okay on the text box that appears and a new window of the Volume Segmenter app will open. Here you can refer to the instructional images, message box, as well as the attached SOP from the lab to help you determine the location of the proximal & distal tibia-fibula junction. Once this is done, you will move around 8-15 slides forward from that point begin segmenting the region of interest using the polygon tool in the draw tab. Be sure to limit total vertices of the shape as this can lead to errors when interpolating. After you have finish segmenting the first image, move ahead 7 slices using the slider at the bottom and segment the last image, click 'Auto Interpolate' at the top under the draw tab when finished. Navigate to the segmenter tab and press the arrow under save segmentations and save them as a workspace variable. Be sure to leave te mode as logical and the name as 'labels'. After saving the segmentation, you can close out of the volume segmenter app and any instructional information as well. The process is complete, your segmentation is saved to a new file with the title taken from the input file. For example, 17577.nii.gz will be saved as '17577Segmentation.nii'. You will also see a chart of slice area to slice number and a 3D visualization of the segmentation overlayed onto the original volume. Finally, the function will output an area vector with the cross sectional area for each slice segmented.
$$ Authors
Lucas Geraldi-Smith, Javier Vento, Neeley De La Mata
